Add KiSSim blog post (#82)
volkamerlab/volkamerlab_org: content/blog/kissim-chemrxiv.md

---
title: "Explore kinase pocket similarities with KiSSim!"
date: 2021-12-15T12:00:00+02:00
author: dominique.sydow
---

> Kinases are an important drug target since their dysregulation can cause servere diseases such as cancer, inflammation, and neurodegeneration. Finding selective drugs, however, is challenging due to the highly conserved binding sites across the roughly 500 human kinases, leading to unwanted side-effects. The underlying off-targets are often not trivial to predict and explain from a sequence-based perspective.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kinases are an important class of drug targets since their dysregulation can cause severe diseases such as cancer, inflammation, and neurodegeneration. Finding selective drugs, however, is challenging due to the highly conserved binding sites across the roughly 500 human kinases, which can lead to unwanted side-effects. The underlying off-targets are often not trivial to predict or to explain from a sequence-based perspective.
```

Reviewer: maybe add sth like '... as given by the well known Manning tree [some link]' at the end

> We explored kinase similarity from a physicochemical and structural point of view in our [_KiSSim_](/projects/kissim/) project. We use a kinase-focused and subpocket-enhanced fingerprint to compare kinase pockets across the structurally covered kinome.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our [_KiSSim_](/projects/kissim/) project, we explored kinase similarity from a physicochemical and structural point of view. We thereby introduced a kinase-focused and subpocket-enhanced fingerprint to compare kinase pockets across the structurally covered kinome.
```

> Take a look at our [ChemRxiv preprint](xxx) "KiSSim: Predicting off-targets from structural similarities in the kinome" to find out more.

Reviewer: todo add link

> We publish our code as `kissim` Python package available at [GitHub](https://github.com/volkamerlab/kissim) and as `conda` package (check out our [documentation](https://kissim.readthedocs.io/) for more details). All data and analyses are integrated in the `kissim_app` [GitHub](https://github.com/volkamerlab/kissim_app) repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We publish our code as `kissim` Python package available at [GitHub](https://github.com/volkamerlab/kissim) and as `conda` package (check out the [kissim documentation](https://kissim.readthedocs.io/) for more details). All data and analyses are integrated in the `kissim_app` [GitHub](https://github.com/volkamerlab/kissim_app) repository.
```

> Thanks to all co-authors for working together on realizing this project: {{< person "dominique.sydow" >}}, {{< person "eva.assmann" >}}, [Albert Kooistra](https://drug.ku.dk/staff/?pure=en/persons/612712) (University of Copenhagen), Friedrich Rippmann (Merck), and {{< person "andrea.volkamer" >}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to all co-authors for working together on realizing this project: {{< person "dominique.sydow" >}}, {{< person "eva.assmann" >}}, [Albert Kooistra](https://drug.ku.dk/staff/?pure=en/persons/612712) (University of Copenhagen), Friedrich Rippmann (Merck Healthcare KGaA), and {{< person "andrea.volkamer" >}}.
```
